Pirates Port: Counterattack is a 1 to 2 player trick-taking game in which you try to win tricks against pirates. The trump is randomly determined by flipping over the top exposed port card, but with every trick you have the option of randomly determining a new trump. Each pass through the deck is two hands; you play a second hand (called the aft hand) without reshuffling the cards.
Setup:
Set all six of the port cards side-by-side in a row. These cards will be used for scoring.
Separate the exposed port cards from the deck. Shuffle them together in their own pile and flip up the top card. This determines the initial trump suit.
Shuffle the rest of the deck together. Deal ten cards to you and ten facedown to the pirate’s (dummy player).
 
Gameplay:
●	Flip over the top card of the pirate’s hand; then, you may play any card from your hand.
●	Before playing your card, you have the option to flip over the next card in the exposed port stack. That suit is now the trump, instead of the suit of the previous port. The new trump determines whether you win this trick and remains in effect until you turn over another exposed port card. 
●	If you turn over all the exposed port cards so that there are no cards left in the exposed port stack, then there is no trump for the remainder of the game. With no trump, the highest card that shares a suit with the pirate’s card wins. You can flip through the exposed port stack as many times as you like before playing your card, until you get to the end of the exposed port's stack. The exposed port's stack is never reset for the rest of the game.
●	You win the trick if one of the following scenarios applies: you played a trump and the pirate did not; you played a higher trump than the pirates, or no trump was played, but you followed suit with a higher card than the pirates. Otherwise, you lose the trick.
●	Regardless of who wins the trick, continue until you have resolved the tricks and depleted both hands.
●	If you won exactly as many tricks as the big number on one of the face-up port cards, flip over that port card. If you cannot not exploit a port (flip over a port card), you have lost.
●	Set aside the tricks from this hand and, without reshuffling, deal the aft hand.
The aft hand:
●	Leave the exposed port pile as it is. Use the remainder of the deck and deal again: Ten cards to yourself and ten to the pirate. (There will be four cards leftover. Set them aside without looking at them.)
●	The game play for the aft hand is the same as for the forehand.
●	After completing the aft hand, reshuffle the main deck but leave the exposed ports as they are. Continue with another forehand.
Game Ends:
Succeeding requires exploiting all six ports. If you can do that, you win the game. If you fail to exploit a port during a hand, you lose.
Credits:
Designed by Adam Telford
The game is inspired by P.D. Magnus.

